# brain-to-brain-interface

Optimising non-invasive brain-computer interface systems for free communication between naïve human participants

Angela I. Renton, Jason B. Mattingley & David R. Painter 
Scientific Reports volume 9, Article number: 18705 (2019)

# Abstract
Free communication is one of the cornerstones of modern civilisation. While manual keyboards currently allow us to interface with computers and manifest our thoughts, a next frontier is communication without manual input. Brain-computer interface (BCI) spellers often achieve this by decoding patterns of neural activity as users attend to flickering keyboard displays. To date, the highest performing spellers report typing rates of ~10.00 words/minute. While impressive, these rates are typically calculated for experienced users repetitively typing single phrases. It is therefore not clear whether naïve users are able to achieve such high rates with the added cognitive load of genuine free communication, which involves continuously generating and spelling novel words and phrases. In two experiments, we developed an open-source, high-performance, non-invasive BCI speller and examined its feasibility for free communication. The BCI speller required users to focus their visual attention on a flickering keyboard display, thereby producing unique cortical activity patterns for each key, which were decoded using filter-bank canonical correlation analysis. In Experiment 1, we tested whether seventeen naïve users could maintain rapid typing during prompted free word association. We found that information transfer rates were indeed slower during this free communication task than during typing of a cued character sequence. In Experiment 2, we further evaluated the speller’s efficacy for free communication by developing a messaging interface, allowing users to engage in free conversation. The results showed that free communication was possible, but that information transfer was reduced by voluntary textual corrections and turn-taking during conversation. We evaluated a number of factors affecting the suitability of BCI spellers for free communication, and make specific recommendations for improving classification accuracy and usability. Overall, we found that developing a BCI speller for free communication requires a focus on usability over reduced character selection time, and as such, future performance appraisals should be based on genuine free communication scenarios.
